feat: update snippets documentation [sc-9215] (#467)
checkly/checklyhq.com: site/content/docs/snippets/_index.md

---
title: Snippets Overview
weight: 70
slug: /
aliases:
- /docs/snippets
- /docs/browser-checks/partials-code-snippets/

menu:
  docs:
    parent: "Snippets"
---

> Snippets are Javascript files which can be reused across checks. Snippets can be used in [browser checks](/docs/browser-checks/), as well as [setup and teardown scripts](/docs/api-checks/setup-teardown-scripts/) for API checks. By reusing code with snippets, checks can be made more maintainable and easier to develop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snippets are Javascript files which can be reused across checks. Snippets can be used in [Browser checks](/docs/browser-checks/), as well as [setup and teardown scripts](/docs/api-checks/setup-teardown-scripts/) for API checks. By reusing code with snippets, checks can be made more maintainable and easier to develop.
```

Reviewer: We're trying to unify terms and go for `Browser checks`. :)

> Snippets can be particularly useful for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snippets can be useful for:
```

- a common login procedure
- a common navigation flow
- a common setup or teardown procedure

### How to use snippets

> To create a snippet, open the <a href="https://app.checklyhq.com/snippets" target="_blank">snippets page</a>. This can be accessed from the toolbar on the left side of the UI. When creating a snippet, note that the snippet name will be used as its filename. It's not necessary to name the snippet with the `.js` file extension, though, since this will be added automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a snippet, access <a href="https://app.checklyhq.com/snippets" target="_blank">the snippets section on the left side of the UI</a>. 

When creating a snippet, note that the snippet name will be used as its filename. It's not necessary to name the snippet with the `.js` file extension, though, since this will be added automatically.
```

The snippet can then be imported in browser checks as well as setup and teardown scripts using the Node.js `require` function. When a check is executed, snippets will be available in the `./snippets` directory. Snippets work like any Javascript file on your local disk in Node.js, making it possible to expose functions and properties on the `module.exports` object.

To require a snippet named `setup-library`, a check would use:
```
const setupLibrary = require('./snippets/setup-library.js')
```

Snippets can even import other snippets. Since snippets are stored in the same directory, it isn't necessary to include `./snippets` in the path when requiring. For example, to import a snippet named `setup-library` from another snippet:
```
const setupLibrary = require('./setup-library.js')
```

### Example: GitHub login

Say we want to validate some parts of the GitHub website only available to logged in users. We want to have separate, small

> browser checks to have granular feedback whether each part functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browser checks to have granular feedback whether each part functions.
```

{{< tabs "github_login" >}}
{{< tab "Playwright" >}}
```javascript
async function gitHubLogin (page, username, password) {
  await page.goto("https://github.com/login")
  await page.type("#login_field", username)
  await page.type("#password", password)
  await page.click('[name="commit"]')
}

module.exports = {
  gitHubLogin
}
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Puppeteer" >}}
```javascript
async function gitHubLogin (page, username, password) {
  await page.goto("https://github.com/login")
  await page.type("#login_field", username)
  await page.type("#password", password)
  await page.click('[name="commit"]')
}

module.exports = {
  gitHubLogin
}
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Notice three things:

- We created a standard `async` function that expects three parameters: the `page` object, a `username` and a `password` variable.
- We exported this function on the standard `module.exports` object.
- You now have a function you can call in any of your Browser checks to perform a login on GitHub.

Your snippet should look like this now.

![github login snippet example](/docs/images/browser-checks/github_login_snippet_example.png)

> Create a new browser check and `require` the code snippet you just created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Browser check and `require` the code snippet you just created.
```

---
title: Snippets Overview
weight: 70
slug: /
aliases:
- "/docs/snippets"
- "/docs/browser-checks/partials-code-snippets/"

menu:
  docs:
    parent: "Snippets"
---

> Snippets are JavaScript files which can be reused across checks. Snippets can be used in [Browser checks](/docs/browser-checks/), as well as [setup and teardown scripts](/docs/api-checks/setup-teardown-scripts/) for API checks. By reusing code with snippets, checks can be made more maintainable and easier to develop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snippets are JavaScript files which can be reused across [Browser checks](/docs/browser-checks/), as well as [setup and teardown scripts](/docs/api-checks/setup-teardown-scripts/) for API checks. By reusing code with snippets, checks can be made more maintainable and easier to develop.
```

Reviewer: Less words are always better words. ;)

Author: Thanks for the proposal. You're right, that's better :)
